.TH K\-SHRINK 1 "2026-03-17" "k-shrink 1.0.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
k\-shrink \- Wayland clipboard image compression daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B k\-shrink
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B k\-shrink
is a background daemon that monitors the Wayland clipboard for image content.
When an image is detected, it is compressed according to user configuration and
written back to the clipboard. The next paste action delivers the compressed
image transparently.

It handles images copied from web browsers, image viewers, and file managers
(via
.I text/uri-list
for filesystem paths). A SHA-256 hash of the output bytes is used to detect
its own output and avoid infinite recompression loops.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in
.I ~/.config/k\-shrink/config.toml
(created automatically with defaults on first run if absent).

.SS [general]
.TP
.BR format \ (string,\ default:\ \fIwebp\fR)
Output image format. Supported values:
.BR webp ,
.BR jpeg ,
.BR avif ,
.BR png ,
.BR qoi ,
.BR farbfeld ,
.BR tiff ,
.BR gif ,
.BR hdr ,
.BR openexr ,
.BR bmp ,
.BR tga ,
.BR pnm ,
.BR ico .

Lossy (quality applies):
.B jpeg
and
.BR avif .
All others are lossless or uncompressed.
.TP
.BR quality \ (integer\ 0\-100,\ default:\ \fI80\fR)
Compression quality. Only applied when
.I format
is
.B jpeg
or
.BR avif .
Ignored for all other formats.
.TP
.BR poll_ms \ (integer,\ minimum\ 100,\ default:\ \fI500\fR)
Clipboard polling interval in milliseconds. Lower values are more responsive
but consume more CPU.
.TP
.BR extra_mimes \ (array\ of\ strings,\ default:\ \fI[]\fR)
Additional MIME types under which to serve the compressed bytes. The actual
format does not change; the same compressed data is advertised under each
listed type. Useful for applications that only request a specific MIME type
(e.g.\&
.IR image/png )
but can still decode the real format.

Example:
.I extra_mimes = ["image/png"]
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/k\-shrink/config.toml
User configuration file.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT\fR,\fB SIGTERM
Graceful shutdown.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Normal exit (signal received).
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error (clipboard backend unavailable, config parse failure).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR wl-paste (1),
.BR wl-copy (1)
.SH AUTHORS
Written by the k\-shrink contributors.
See the project repository for the full contributor list.
